README.md, before:

# Self-Referential Documentation Framework

[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/your-repo/docs-build.yml)](https://github.com/your-repo/thought-transfer/actions)
[![DocFX](https://img.shields.io/badge/DocFX-2.59+-blue)](https://dotnet.github.io/docfx/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)

A living documentation system that embodies self-evolutionary principles through recursive improvement loops, strange loops, and meta-documentation patterns.

## 🧠 Philosophy

This documentation system operates on **PMCR-O Loop** principles:
- **Planner**: Documents plan their own expansion
- **Maker**: Content creates new insights through self-analysis
- **Checker**: Each document validates its own accuracy
- **Reflector**: Meta-reflection on the documentation process
- **Orchestrator**: Coordinates the evolution of the entire system

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- [.NET 6.0+](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- [DocFX](https://dotnet.github.io/docfx/) (`dotnet tool install -g docfx`)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)

### Build the Site

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/your-repo/thought-transfer.git
cd thought-transfer

# Install DocFX globally
dotnet tool install -g docfx

# Build the documentation site
docfx build

# Serve locally for development
docfx serve _site
```

The site will be available at `http://localhost:8080`.

### MCP Setup for AI Development

This project includes a comprehensive MCP (Model Context Protocol) configuration for AI-powered development:

```bash
# Set up environment variables
.\setup-env.ps1  # PowerShell script
# OR
setup-env.bat    # Batch script

# Configure your API keys (see MCP_SETUP_GUIDE.md)
# - GITHUB_TOKEN for repository access
# - DATABASE_CONNECTION_STRING for data storage
# - Additional keys for cloud services, AI APIs, etc.
```

**Available MCP Servers:**
- **Core Development**: filesystem, memory, sequential-thinking, git
- **Database**: SQLite, multi-database support
- **Cloud**: Azure, AWS, Docker
- **AI & Search**: OpenAI, Brave Search, web scraping
- **Productivity**: Slack, Airtable, Postman, task management

See [MCP Setup Guide](docs/MCP_SETUP_GUIDE.md) for detailed configuration instructions.

### Development Workflow

```bash
# Create a new branch for your changes
git checkout -b feature/your-improvement

# Make your changes to the docs/ directory
# Edit existing files or create new ones following the self-referential template

# Build and preview
docfx build
docfx serve _site

# Run self-assessment and evolution systems
npm run self-assess          # Assess documentation quality
npm run evolution-triggers   # Trigger automated improvements
npm run orchestrate          # Run full orchestration cycle
npm run full-assessment      # Complete assessment pipeline

# Test evolution triggers and self-assessment features
npm run validate-structure   # Validate document structure

# Commit and push
git add .
git commit -m "Improve documentation with self-referential enhancements"
git push origin feature/your-improvement
```

### Automated Maintenance

Set up automated maintenance to keep your documentation evolving:

```bash
# Run full maintenance cycle (assessment + evolution + build)
npm run maintenance

# Or run individual components
npm run orchestrate          # Master orchestration system
npm run self-assess          # Quality assessment
npm run evolution-triggers   # Improvement triggers
npm run validate-structure   # Structure validation
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
docs/
├── index.md                 # Main landing page
├── toc.yml                  # Table of contents
├── philosophy/              # Core principles
│   ├── overview.md         # Philosophical foundation
│   ├── pmcro-loop.md      # PMCR-O loop explanation
│   ├── strange-loops.md   # Self-reference patterns
│   └── self-reference.md  # Self-reference principles
├── guides/                  # Practical guides
│   ├── getting-started.md  # Onboarding guide
│   ├── advanced-usage.md   # Advanced patterns
│   ├── best-practices.md   # Quality standards
│   └── troubleshooting.md  # Problem solving
├── api/                     # Technical reference
│   ├── reference.md        # Core API
│   ├── evolution-engine.md # Evolution system
│   ├── self-assessment.md  # Assessment API
│   └── integration.md      # Integration patterns
├── evolution/               # Self-improvement system
│   ├── mechanisms.md       # Evolution mechanisms
│   ├── triggers.md         # Trigger system
│   ├── quality-assurance.md # Quality processes
│   └── monitoring.md       # Performance tracking
├── meta/                    # Meta-documentation
│   ├── framework.md        # Meta-framework
│   ├── philosophy.md       # Meta-philosophy
│   ├── patterns.md         # Meta-patterns
│   └── tracking.md         # Evolution tracking
├── contributing.md          # Contribution guide
├── CHANGELOG.md            # Version history
├── ROADMAP.md              # Future plans
└── faq.md                  # Frequently asked questions
```

## 🔧 Available Scripts

The project includes several npm scripts for managing the self-referential documentation system:

### Core Scripts
```bash
npm run build              # Build DocFX site
npm run serve              # Serve site locally
npm run dev                # Build and serve in development mode
```

### Self-Assessment Scripts
```bash
npm run self-assess        # Run comprehensive quality assessment
npm run validate-structure # Validate document structure and references
npm run full-assessment    # Complete assessment pipeline
```

### Evolution Scripts
```bash
npm run evolution-triggers # Execute evolution triggers
npm run orchestrate        # Master orchestration system
npm run maintenance        # Full maintenance cycle
```

### Utility Scripts
```bash
npm run generate-report    # Generate system reports
npm test                   # Run validation tests
```

### Script Details

- **`npm run orchestrate`**: Runs the master orchestration system that coordinates validation, assessment, evolution, and reporting
- **`npm run self-assess`**: Performs detailed quality assessment of all documentation with scoring and improvement suggestions
- **`npm run evolution-triggers`**: Analyzes system state and triggers automated improvements based on patterns
- **`npm run maintenance`**: Complete maintenance cycle including assessment, evolution, and site rebuild

## 🎯 Key Features

### Self-Evolutionary Content
- **Self-Assessment**: Every document evaluates its own quality
- **Evolution Triggers**: Automated improvement mechanisms
- **Cross-References**: Intelligent linking between related content
- **Meta-Documentation**: Documentation about the documentation system

### Advanced Navigation
- **Table of Contents**: Hierarchical organization with evolution status
- **Search Integration**: Full-text search with self-referential indexing
- **Breadcrumbs**: Context-aware navigation with evolution tracking
- **Related Content**: AI-powered content recommendations

### Quality Assurance
- **Automated Validation**: Continuous quality checks
- **Evolution Monitoring**: Track improvement effectiveness
- **User Feedback Integration**: Real-time feedback processing
- **Performance Analytics**: Usage pattern analysis

### Orchestration System
- **Master Orchestrator**: Coordinates all self-referential systems
- **Automated Assessment**: Continuous quality evaluation
- **Evolution Engine**: Self-improvement through PMCR-O loops
- **Health Monitoring**: System-wide performance tracking
- **Report Generation**: Comprehensive analytics and insights

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions that enhance the self-evolutionary capabilities of this documentation system. See our [Contributing Guide](contributing.md) for details.

### Types of Contributions

- **Content Creation**: Write new self-referential documents
- **Evolution Enhancement**: Improve self-improvement mechanisms
- **Technical Development**: Extend the DocFX integration
- **Quality Assurance**: Enhance validation and monitoring

## 📊 System Health

| Metric | Status | Details |
|--------|--------|---------|
| **Documentation Completeness** | 87% | Based on self-assessments |
| **Evolution Readiness** | 🟢 High | All documents have active triggers |
| **Cross-Reference Integrity** | 94% | Validated link network |
| **Self-Improvement Rate** | 📈 2.3/day | Average improvements per document |

## 🔄 Evolution System

The documentation automatically evolves through:

1. **Gap Detection**: Identifies missing or outdated content
2. **Quality Assessment**: Evaluates document effectiveness
3. **Improvement Generation**: Creates enhancement suggestions
4. **Automated Updates**: Implements approved improvements
5. **Effectiveness Tracking**: Monitors improvement impact

## 📈 Roadmap

### Phase 1 (Current): Foundation
- ✅ Self-referential document structure
- ✅ Basic evolution triggers
- ✅ Meta-documentation framework
- 🔄 Advanced evolution patterns

### Phase 2: Enhancement
- [ ] AI-powered content generation
- [ ] Real-time evolution monitoring
- [ ] Advanced cross-reference analysis
- [ ] User behavior integration

### Phase 3: Intelligence
- [ ] Predictive content improvement
- [ ] Automated content restructuring
- [ ] Consciousness-level documentation
- [ ] Self-aware documentation system

## 🆘 Support

- **Documentation**: [User Guide](guides/getting-started.md)
- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/your-repo/thought-transfer/issues)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/your-repo/thought-transfer/discussions)
- **Discord**: [Community Chat](https://discord.gg/your-server)

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Douglas Hofstadter** for strange loop concepts
- **Martin Buber** for I-Thou relational dynamics
- **John von Neumann** for self-replicating system inspiration
- **DocFX Community** for the excellent documentation platform

---

**Built with ❤️ using DocFX and self-referential principles**

*This README is self-referential and contains instructions for its own improvement.*

Commit message:

docs: reach 100% self-referential validation; add site.json + plugin validators; CI workflow; MCP client/tasks updates; scaffold WebApp/MAUI/BuildTasks; intents and scripts

README.md, after:

# Self-Referential Documentation Framework

[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/your-repo/docs-build.yml)](https://github.com/your-repo/thought-transfer/actions)
[![DocFX](https://img.shields.io/badge/DocFX-2.59+-blue)](https://dotnet.github.io/docfx/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)

A living documentation system that embodies self-evolutionary principles through recursive improvement loops, strange loops, and meta-documentation patterns.

## 🧠 Philosophy

This documentation system operates on **PMCR-O Loop** principles:
- **Planner**: Documents plan their own expansion
- **Maker**: Content creates new insights through self-analysis
- **Checker**: Each document validates its own accuracy
- **Reflector**: Meta-reflection on the documentation process
- **Orchestrator**: Coordinates the evolution of the entire system

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- [.NET 6.0+](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- [DocFX](https://dotnet.github.io/docfx/) (`dotnet tool install -g docfx`)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)

### Build the Site

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/your-repo/thought-transfer.git
cd thought-transfer

# Install DocFX globally
dotnet tool install -g docfx

# Build the documentation site
docfx build

# Serve locally for development
docfx serve _site
```

The site will be available at `http://localhost:8080`.

### Use as a .NET template

You can install this repository as a local template and scaffold new projects:

- Install: dotnet new install .
- Create a project: dotnet new thoughttransfer -n MyNewProject

This scaffolds the DocFX docs, Node orchestration scripts, intents, and the C# MCP client.

### MCP Setup for AI Development

This project includes a comprehensive MCP (Model Context Protocol) configuration for AI-powered development:

```bash
# Set up environment variables
.\setup-env.ps1  # PowerShell script
# OR
setup-env.bat    # Batch script

# Configure your API keys (see MCP_SETUP_GUIDE.md)
# - GITHUB_TOKEN for repository access
# - DATABASE_CONNECTION_STRING for data storage
# - Additional keys for cloud services, AI APIs, etc.
```

**Available MCP Servers:**
- **Core Development**: filesystem, memory, sequential-thinking, git
- **Database**: SQLite, multi-database support
- **Cloud**: Azure, AWS, Docker
- **AI & Search**: OpenAI, Brave Search, web scraping
- **Productivity**: Slack, Airtable, Postman, task management

See [MCP Setup Guide](docs/MCP_SETUP_GUIDE.md) for detailed configuration instructions.

### Development Workflow

```bash
# Create a new branch for your changes
git checkout -b feature/your-improvement

# Make your changes to the docs/ directory
# Edit existing files or create new ones following the self-referential template

# Build and preview
docfx build
docfx serve _site

# Run self-assessment and evolution systems
npm run self-assess          # Assess documentation quality
npm run evolution-triggers   # Trigger automated improvements
npm run orchestrate          # Run full orchestration cycle
npm run full-assessment      # Complete assessment pipeline

# Test evolution triggers and self-assessment features
npm run validate-structure   # Validate document structure

# Commit and push
git add .
git commit -m "Improve documentation with self-referential enhancements"
git push origin feature/your-improvement
```

### Automated Maintenance

Set up automated maintenance to keep your documentation evolving:

```bash
# Run full maintenance cycle (assessment + evolution + build)
npm run maintenance

# Or run individual components
npm run orchestrate          # Master orchestration system
npm run self-assess          # Quality assessment
npm run evolution-triggers   # Improvement triggers
npm run validate-structure   # Structure validation
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
docs/
├── index.md                 # Main landing page
├── toc.yml                  # Table of contents
├── philosophy/              # Core principles
│   ├── overview.md         # Philosophical foundation
│   ├── pmcro-loop.md      # PMCR-O loop explanation
│   ├── strange-loops.md   # Self-reference patterns
│   └── self-reference.md  # Self-reference principles
├── guides/                  # Practical guides
│   ├── getting-started.md  # Onboarding guide
│   ├── advanced-usage.md   # Advanced patterns
│   ├── best-practices.md   # Quality standards
│   └── troubleshooting.md  # Problem solving
├── api/                     # Technical reference
│   ├── reference.md        # Core API
│   ├── evolution-engine.md # Evolution system
│   ├── self-assessment.md  # Assessment API
│   └── integration.md      # Integration patterns
├── evolution/               # Self-improvement system
│   ├── mechanisms.md       # Evolution mechanisms
│   ├── triggers.md         # Trigger system
│   ├── quality-assurance.md # Quality processes
│   └── monitoring.md       # Performance tracking
├── meta/                    # Meta-documentation
│   ├── framework.md        # Meta-framework
│   ├── philosophy.md       # Meta-philosophy
│   ├── patterns.md         # Meta-patterns
│   └── tracking.md         # Evolution tracking
├── contributing.md          # Contribution guide
├── CHANGELOG.md            # Version history
├── ROADMAP.md              # Future plans
└── faq.md                  # Frequently asked questions
```

## 🔧 Available Scripts

The project includes several npm scripts for managing the self-referential documentation system:

### Core Scripts
```bash
npm run build              # Build DocFX site
npm run serve              # Serve site locally
npm run dev                # Build and serve in development mode
```

### Self-Assessment Scripts
```bash
npm run self-assess        # Run comprehensive quality assessment
npm run validate-structure # Validate document structure and references
npm run full-assessment    # Complete assessment pipeline
```

### Evolution Scripts
```bash
npm run evolution-triggers # Execute evolution triggers
npm run orchestrate        # Master orchestration system
npm run maintenance        # Full maintenance cycle
```

### Utility Scripts
```bash
npm run generate-report    # Generate system reports
npm test                   # Run validation tests
```

### Script Details

- **`npm run orchestrate`**: Runs the master orchestration system that coordinates validation, assessment, evolution, and reporting
- **`npm run self-assess`**: Performs detailed quality assessment of all documentation with scoring and improvement suggestions
- **`npm run evolution-triggers`**: Analyzes system state and triggers automated improvements based on patterns
- **`npm run maintenance`**: Complete maintenance cycle including assessment, evolution, and site rebuild

## 🎯 Key Features

### Self-Evolutionary Content
- **Self-Assessment**: Every document evaluates its own quality
- **Evolution Triggers**: Automated improvement mechanisms
- **Cross-References**: Intelligent linking between related content
- **Meta-Documentation**: Documentation about the documentation system

### Advanced Navigation
- **Table of Contents**: Hierarchical organization with evolution status
- **Search Integration**: Full-text search with self-referential indexing
- **Breadcrumbs**: Context-aware navigation with evolution tracking
- **Related Content**: AI-powered content recommendations

### Quality Assurance
- **Automated Validation**: Continuous quality checks
- **Evolution Monitoring**: Track improvement effectiveness
- **User Feedback Integration**: Real-time feedback processing
- **Performance Analytics**: Usage pattern analysis

### Orchestration System
- **Master Orchestrator**: Coordinates all self-referential systems
- **Automated Assessment**: Continuous quality evaluation
- **Evolution Engine**: Self-improvement through PMCR-O loops
- **Health Monitoring**: System-wide performance tracking
- **Report Generation**: Comprehensive analytics and insights

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions that enhance the self-evolutionary capabilities of this documentation system. See our [Contributing Guide](contributing.md) for details.

### Types of Contributions

- **Content Creation**: Write new self-referential documents
- **Evolution Enhancement**: Improve self-improvement mechanisms
- **Technical Development**: Extend the DocFX integration
- **Quality Assurance**: Enhance validation and monitoring

## 📊 System Health

| Metric | Status | Details |
|--------|--------|---------|
| **Documentation Completeness** | 87% | Based on self-assessments |
| **Evolution Readiness** | 🟢 High | All documents have active triggers |
| **Cross-Reference Integrity** | 94% | Validated link network |
| **Self-Improvement Rate** | 📈 2.3/day | Average improvements per document |

## 🔄 Evolution System

The documentation automatically evolves through:

1. **Gap Detection**: Identifies missing or outdated content
2. **Quality Assessment**: Evaluates document effectiveness
3. **Improvement Generation**: Creates enhancement suggestions
4. **Automated Updates**: Implements approved improvements
5. **Effectiveness Tracking**: Monitors improvement impact

## 📈 Roadmap

### Phase 1 (Current): Foundation
- ✅ Self-referential document structure
- ✅ Basic evolution triggers
- ✅ Meta-documentation framework
- 🔄 Advanced evolution patterns

### Phase 2: Enhancement
- [ ] AI-powered content generation
- [ ] Real-time evolution monitoring
- [ ] Advanced cross-reference analysis
- [ ] User behavior integration

### Phase 3: Intelligence
- [ ] Predictive content improvement
- [ ] Automated content restructuring
- [ ] Consciousness-level documentation
- [ ] Self-aware documentation system

## 🆘 Support

- **Documentation**: [User Guide](guides/getting-started.md)
- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/your-repo/thought-transfer/issues)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/your-repo/thought-transfer/discussions)
- **Discord**: [Community Chat](https://discord.gg/your-server)

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Douglas Hofstadter** for strange loop concepts
- **Martin Buber** for I-Thou relational dynamics
- **John von Neumann** for self-replicating system inspiration
- **DocFX Community** for the excellent documentation platform

---

**Built with ❤️ using DocFX and self-referential principles**

*This README is self-referential and contains instructions for its own improvement.*
